docs/ add how-to docs for `AsyncThrottler` (#4246)
CoinAlpha/hummingbot: documentation/docs/developers/connectors/task4.md

# Task 4 — API Throttler, Configurations & Additional Functions

This section explains the steps required to integrate the API throttler into the connector as well as detailing the necessary configurations to integrate your connector with Hummingbot.

## API Throttler

This section will detail the necessary steps to integrate the `AsyncThrottler` into the connector. 
The `AsyncThrottler` class utilizes asynchrounous context managers to throttle API and/or WebSocket requests.

!!! note
    The integration of the `AsyncThrottler` into the connector is entirely optional, but it is recommended to enable a better user experience as well as allowing users to manually configure the usable rate limits per Hummingbot instance.

### Types of Rate Limits

There are several types of rate limits that can be handled by the `AsyncThrottler` class. The following sections will detail(with examples) how to initialize the necessary `RateLimit` and how to the throttler is consumed by the connector for each of the different rate limit types. 

!!! warning
    It is important to identify the exchange's rate limit implementation.

#### 1. Rate Limit per endpoint

> This refers to rate limits that are applied on a per endpoint basis. For this rate limit type, the key information to retrieve for each endpoint would be its assigned **limit** and **time interval**.

Reviewer: I think it would also be nice to give an example of how this works. Something like:

The time interval is on a rolling basis. For example, if the endpoint's rate limit is 20 and the time interval is 60, the next time the throttler is called for that endpoint, it will check if there have been 20 calls made in the past minute from the current moment.

      RateLimit(limit_id=GET_TRADING_RULES_PATH_URL, limit=100, time_interval=1),
      RateLimit(limit_id=CREATE_ORDER_PATH_URL, limit=15, time_interval=0.1),
      RateLimit(limit_id=CANCEL_ORDER_PATH_URL, limit=15, time_interval=0.1),
      RateLimit(limit_id=GET_ACCOUNT_SUMMARY_PATH_URL, limit=3, time_interval=0.1),
      RateLimit(limit_id=GET_ORDER_DETAIL_PATH_URL, limit=30, time_interval=0.1),
      RateLimit(limit_id=GET_OPEN_ORDERS_PATH_URL, limit=3, time_interval=0.1),
  ]
  ```

!!! note
    `time_interval` here is in seconds. i.e. The rate limits for `CREATE_ORDER_PATH_URL` is 15 requests every 100ms

#### 2. Rate Limit Pools

Rate limit pools refer to a group of endpoints that consumes from a single rate limit. For this rate limit type, the key information to retrieve for each endpoint are its assigned pool(s) and its respective limit and time interval.

!!! note
    Examples of existing connectors that utilizes this rate limit implementation are:</br>
      (1) Binance, Binance Perpetual</br>
      (2) Ndax</br>

##### Configuring Rate Limits

An example of an exchange implementing a this can be seen in the Ndax connector.

>   All the rate limit are initialized in the `ndax_constants.py` file. 

Reviewer: It's worth mentioning that this is the case in general, but it's possible to have complex rate limits that are created dynamically, and to give bybit as an example

                             LinkedLimitWeightPair(ORDERS, 1),
                             LinkedLimitWeightPair(ORDERS_24HR, 1)]),
]
```

!!! note
    Binance implements API Pools as well as weighted requests. In the example above, the `BINANCE_CREATE_ORDER` endpoint has a request weight of 1 for 3 API Pools, while the `SNAPSHOT_PATH_URL` endpopint has a request weight of 50 for the `REQUEST_WEIGHT` API Pool. Notice that the API Pools have different rate limits and time intervals.

## Integrating Rate Limits into the connector

The throttler should be consumed by all relevant classes that issues an API endpoints. Namely the `Exchange/Derivative`, `APIOrderBookDataSource` and `UserStreamDataSource` classes. Doing so ensures that the throttler manages all REST API/Websocket requests issued by any of the connector components.

In this example, we will use referencing the `NdaxExchange` class.

### Initializing the Connector

In the ```__init__()``` function, we have to initialize the `AsyncThrottler`.

```python
from hummingbot.connector.exchange.ndax import ndax_constants as CONSTANTS

class NdaxExchange(ExchangeBase):

>   def __init__(...):
>     ...
>     self._throttler = AsyncThrottler(CONSTANTS.RATE_LIMITS)
>     self._order_book_tracker = NdaxOrderBookTracker(

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    def __init__(...):
        ...
        self._throttler = AsyncThrottler(CONSTANTS.RATE_LIMITS)
        self._order_book_tracker = NdaxOrderBookTracker(
```

            throttler=self._throttler, trading_pairs=trading_pairs, domain=domain
        )
        self._user_stream_tracker = NdaxUserStreamTracker(
            throttler=self._throttler, auth_assistant=self._auth, domain=domain
        )
```

!!! note
    Notice that we pass the throttler as arguments to the `NdaxOrderBookTracker` as well as `NdaxUserStreamTracker`. This is to ensure that all classes that interact with the Ndax API servers share the same throttler.

### Consuming the throttler

> To consume the throttler when executing an API request, we simple wrap the contents of the `_api_request(...)` function within the an asynchrounous context as seen below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To consume the throttler when executing an API request, we simply wrap the contents of the `_api_request(...)` function within the asynchronous context as seen below.
```

```python
def _api_request(...):
  async with self._throttler.execute_task(path_url):
    ...
```

!!! warning

>     The `path_url` must be match the `limit_id` of the endpoint as defined in the `RATE_LIMITS` constant. The throttler will match the `path_url` to its assigned rate limits or API pools.

Reviewer: I think that, when first introducing the rate limit IDs above, it's worth explaining that the limit ID's can actually be entirely arbitrary, but it helps to assign the endpoint's name as ID to help with debugging, for example

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The `path_url` must match the `limit_id` of the endpoint as defined in the `RATE_LIMITS` constant. The throttler will match the `path_url` to its assigned rate limits or API pools.
```

# Task 4 — API Throttler, Configurations & Additional Functions

> This section explains the steps required to integrate the API throttler into the connector as well as detailing the necessary configurations to integrate your connector with Hummingbot.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section explains the steps required to include API throttler functionality into the connector and details the necessary configurations to integrate the connector with Hummingbot.
```

## API Throttler

This section will detail the necessary steps to integrate the `AsyncThrottler` into the connector. 

> The `AsyncThrottler` class utilizes asynchrounous context managers to throttle API and/or WebSocket requests and avoid reaching the exchange's server rate limits.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `AsyncThrottler` class utilizes asynchronous context managers to throttle API and/or WebSocket requests and avoid reaching the exchange's server rate limits.
```

!!! note
    The integration of the `AsyncThrottler` into the connector is entirely optional, but it is recommended to enable a better user experience as well as allowing users to manually configure the usable rate limits per Hummingbot instance.

### RateLimit & LinkedLimitWeightPair Data classes

> The `RateLimit` data class is used to represent a rate limit defined by exchanges, while the `LinkedLimitWeightPair` data class is used to associate a assigned weight of an endpoint to its API Pool(defaults to 1, if none is provided)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `RateLimit` data class is used to represent a rate limit defined by exchanges, while the `LinkedLimitWeightPair` data class is used to associate an endpoint consumption weight to its API Pool (defaults to 1 if it is not specified)
```

```python
@dataclass
class LinkedLimitWeightPair:
    limit_id: str
    weight: int = DEFAULT_WEIGHT

class RateLimit:
    """
    Defines call rate limits typical for API endpoints.
    """

    def __init__(self,
                 limit_id: str,
                 limit: int,
                 time_interval: float,
                 weight: int = DEFAULT_WEIGHT,
                 linked_limits: Optional[List[LinkedLimitWeightPair]] = None,
                 ):
        """
        :param limit_id: A unique identifier for this RateLimit object, this is usually an API request path url
        :param limit: A total number of calls * weight permitted within time_interval period
        :param time_interval: The time interval in seconds
        :param weight: The weight (in integer) of each call. Defaults to 1
        :param linked_limits: Optional list of LinkedLimitWeightPairs. Used to associate a weight to the linked rate limit.
        """
        self.limit_id = limit_id
        self.limit = limit
        self.time_interval = time_interval
        self.weight = weight
        self.linked_limits = linked_limits or []
```

### Types of Rate Limits

> There are several types of rate limits that can be handled by the `AsyncThrottler` class. The following sections will detail(with examples) how to initialize the necessary `RateLimit` and how to the throttler is consumed by the connector for each of the different rate limit types. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are several types of rate limits that can be handled by the `AsyncThrottler` class. The following sections will detail (with examples) how to initialize the necessary `RateLimit` and the interaction between the connector and the throttler for each of the different rate limit types. 
```

!!! warning
    It is important to identify the exchange's rate limit implementation.

#### 1. Rate Limit per endpoint

This refers to rate limits that are applied on a per endpoint basis. For this rate limit type, the key information to retrieve for each endpoint would be its assigned **limit** and **time interval**.

> Note that the time interval is on a rolling basis. For example, if an endpoint's rate limit is 20 and the time interval is 60, this meant that the throttler will check if there are 20 calls made(to the same endpoint) within the past 60 seconds from the current moment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that the time interval is on a rolling basis. For example, if an endpoint's rate limit is 20 and the time interval is 60, this meant that the throttler will check if there are 20 calls made (to the same endpoint) within the past 60 seconds from the current moment.
```

!!! note
    Examples of existing connectors that utilizes this rate limit implementation are:</br>
      (1) Kucoin</br>
      (2) Crypto.com</br>

##### Configuring Rate Limits

>   As mentioned above, the key information to retrieve from the exchange are the `limit` and `time_interval`(in seconds) of each endpoint. We will be referencing the Crypto.com connector as an example for exchanges that implement rate limits per endpoint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  As mentioned above, the key information to retrieve from the exchange are the `limit` and `time_interval` (in seconds) of each endpoint. We will be referencing the Crypto.com connector as an example for exchanges that implement rate limits per endpoint.
```

    Examples of existing connectors that utilizes this rate limit implementation are:</br>
      (1) Binance, Binance Perpetual</br>
      (2) Ndax</br>

##### Configuring Rate Limits

An example of an exchange implementing this can be seen in the Ndax connector.

Note

  All the rate limit are initialized in the `ndax_constants.py` file. 

  ```python
  # Pool IDs
  HTTP_ENDPOINTS_LIMIT_ID = "AllHTTP"
  WS_ENDPOINTS_LIMIT_ID = "AllWs"

  RATE_LIMITS = [
    # REST API Pool(applies to all REST API endpoints)
    RateLimit(limit_id=HTTP_ENDPOINTS_LIMIT_ID, limit=HTTP_LIMIT, time_interval=MINUTE),
    # WebSocket Pool(applies to all WS requests)
    RateLimit(limit_id=WS_ENDPOINTS_LIMIT_ID, limit=WS_LIMIT, time_interval=MINUTE),
    # Public REST API endpoint
    RateLimit(
        limit_id=MARKETS_URL,
        limit=HTTP_LIMIT,
        time_interval=MINUTE,
        linked_limits=[LinkedLimitWeightPair(HTTP_ENDPOINTS_LIMIT_ID)],
    ),
    # WebSocket Auth endpoint
    RateLimit(
        limit_id=ACCOUNT_POSITION_EVENT_ENDPOINT_NAME,
        limit=WS_LIMIT,
        time_interval=MINUTE,
        linked_limits=[LinkedLimitWeightPair(WS_ENDPOINTS_LIMIT_ID)],
    ),
  ]
  ```

!!! note

>     Notice that we assign an abitruary limit id(i.e. `HTTP_ENDPOINTS_LIMIT_ID`) to the API pools and we use the [`LinkedLimitWeightPair`](https://github.com/CoinAlpha/hummingbot/blob/master/hummingbot/core/api_throttler/data_types.py) to assign an endpoint to the API pool. Also do note that an endpoint may belong to multiple endpoints. It is also worth noting that there can be more complex implementations to API pools as seen in the ByBit Perpetual connector [here](https://github.com/CoinAlpha/hummingbot/blob/master/hummingbot/connector/derivative/bybit_perpetual/bybit_perpetual_constants.py).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Notice that we assign an abitruary limit id (i.e. `HTTP_ENDPOINTS_LIMIT_ID`) to the API pools and we use the [`LinkedLimitWeightPair`](https://github.com/CoinAlpha/hummingbot/blob/master/hummingbot/core/api_throttler/data_types.py) to assign an endpoint to the API pool. Also do note that an endpoint may belong to multiple other endpoints. It is also worth noting that there can be more complex implementations to API pools as seen in the ByBit Perpetual connector [here](https://github.com/CoinAlpha/hummingbot/blob/master/hummingbot/connector/derivative/bybit_perpetual/bybit_perpetual_constants.py).
```

#### 3. Weighted Request Rate Limits

> For weighted rate limits, each endpoint is assigned a request weight. Generally, these exchanges would utilize Rate Limit Pools in conjunction with the request weights, where different endpoints will have a different impact on the given pool. Key information to retrieve for these exchanges are the weights for each endpoint, limits the time interval for the API Pool.

Reviewer 2: I don't understand the last part of the sentence, after the last comma: `..., limits the time interval for the API Pool.`

Author: its should be "..., limits **and** the time internals for the API Pool."

```python
RATE_LIMITS = [
    # Pools
    RateLimit(limit_id=REQUEST_WEIGHT, limit=1200, time_interval=ONE_MINUTE),
    RateLimit(limit_id=ORDERS, limit=10, time_interval=ONE_SECOND),
    RateLimit(limit_id=ORDERS_24HR, limit=100000, time_interval=ONE_DAY),
    # Weighted Limits
    RateLimit(limit_id=SNAPSHOT_PATH_URL, limit=MAX_REQUEST, time_interval=ONE_MINUTE,
              linked_limits=[LinkedLimitWeightPair(REQUEST_WEIGHT, 50)]),
    RateLimit(limit_id=BINANCE_CREATE_ORDER, limit=MAX_REQUEST, time_interval=ONE_MINUTE,
              linked_limits=[LinkedLimitWeightPair(REQUEST_WEIGHT, 1),
                             LinkedLimitWeightPair(ORDERS, 1),
                             LinkedLimitWeightPair(ORDERS_24HR, 1)]),
]
```

!!! note
    Binance implements API Pools as well as weighted requests. In the example above, the `BINANCE_CREATE_ORDER` endpoint has a request weight of 1 for 3 API Pools, while the `SNAPSHOT_PATH_URL` endpopint has a request weight of 50 for the `REQUEST_WEIGHT` API Pool. Notice that the API Pools have different rate limits and time intervals.

## Integrating Rate Limits into the connector

> The throttler should be consumed by all relevant classes that issue server API calls. Namely the `Exchange/Derivative`, `APIOrderBookDataSource` and `UserStreamDataSource` classes. Doing so ensures that the throttler manages all REST API/Websocket requests issued by any of the connector components.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The throttler should be consumed by all relevant classes that issue server API calls that are limited by the exchange (either http requests or websocket requests). Namely the `Exchange/Derivative`, `APIOrderBookDataSource` and `UserStreamDataSource` classes. Doing so ensures that the throttler manages all REST API/Websocket requests issued by any of the connector components.
```
